this video is really reflection on the
difference between what I feel and what
I know and how that plays out day-to-day
real life conversations about veganism
long-term horizons for vegan politics
vegan effective activism Oh in my life
and maybe in yours um had a conversation
just 30 minutes ago at breakfast here in
China and I was not at my best I hadn't
just woken up I woke up very early maybe
six a.m. maybe a maybe 530 am with my
whole body really aching from the work
out ahead of the gym last night and I
wanted to get to work on Chinese right
away I wanted to hit the books start
writing out an essay in Chinese so I ate
chocolate vegan chocolate and for me I'm
someone who uh someone who avoids
caffeine I try to have zero caffeine in
my diet so to me that's a pretty hard
drug so I was a little bit jittery a
little bit cranked up on chocolate
because I hate that when i first woke up
got a couple of hours of work done
before i went to breakfast and and had
this conversation so at a conversation
with a meat eater and i've talked about
on this video in the past to some extent
you know if you believe veganism is for
everybody then various things follow
from that you know from that proposition
that you want everyone to be vegan or
that you would be happy for others if
they become vegan even if someone is
politically very different from you
religiously very different from you if
someone was a jerk to you back in high
school and then you meet them years
later and they become vegan would you be
would you be happy for them say that i
say thats upgrade there were definitely
some people i was a jerk to in high
school and I wonder if they'd be happy
from Heath empty all right I don't need
you to be happy for me it's okay but I
just say on that level of knowledge
there's knowing that veganism is a
positive thing for everyone for the
whole world and i would be happy for you
no matter who you are even if you're a
terrible person even if you're Bernie
Sanders in prison even if you're some
kind of criminal or we just have very
deep ethical political differences I
would be happy for you if you become
vegan because I know veganism is for
everybody
and in some sense I want they're pretty
amazing but in terms of how I feel on
the level of emotional reality and this
connects to my own very pragmatic
political attitudes I don't want
everyone to be vegan I meet a lot of
people and I don't care face-to-face
because I think they're useless people I
think there's self-indulgent stupid
fatuous people who are never going to
accomplish anything in their lives and
when they give me their excuses for why
they eat meat why they're going to keep
on eating meat I feel like I can nod my
head I feel it's not what I know but I
feel like great one less idiot poison
leaving the body weakness leaving the
system I don't need you I don't need you
in this movement I need the best and the
brightest I need highly effective highly
self-discipline people who can really
make something happen and you know this
just mentioned YouTube has a lot to do
with physical beauty appearance
especially if you're selling diet books
or what have you and a lot of vegans
want to look a hundred and ten percent
healthy on camera just so they can
represent veganism positively although
you know you can be a fat vegan you can
be an ugly vegan that's cool i've used
example before of mod vegan i can give a
link to her channel again doesn't cost
me anything to link to her channel now
mod vegan is extremely good-looking but
that's not what gets me excited when I
see your channel when I see your channel
I think here's a highly intelligent
highly effective person who can organize
lunch here's someone look here's someone
who I can see giving a deposition at
City Hall here's someone who I can see
doing the paperwork at City Hall to book
the time to give that deposition to
present to government that argument I
was talking to someone else recently a
much much younger person but she
understood within Canada you know
lobbying for political change in the
education system I was talking her okay
you know if you want to influence the
school board if you want to influence
public education policy obviously for
example so that animal rights veganism
in ecology ecology as linked to veganism
get covered in our education system okay
let's talk about in the next 10 years
the serious steps for that I'm
interested in highly intelligent
self-discipline highly effective people
but from all walks of life by the way
doesn't require formal education doesn't
necessarily mean you've got a university
degree you could be a high school
dropout and have those qualities in a
country like Canada that's unusual in
country like Cambodia all the time you
meet brilliant people really intelligent
people who never had high school
education so you know depending on where
you are in the world when I lived in
place the Cambodia and Laos I did know
people with zero formal education but
who had informal education of a very
high level and almost everything I know
that's worth a damn is from information
anyway it wasn't from my formal
education that I learned the things that
that brought you to this some this
YouTube channel now but that is a
difference between what I feel and what
I know so in this conversation just half
an hour ago and I was as I mentioned a
little bit jittery because I'd eaten
chocolate i've been up since very early
working hard on chinese and you know
this meat eater just pelts me with
questions and expects me to have instant
perspicacious profound answers to all of
them it's this game a lot you Feakins
will pin to it before now in my case I
talked a pretty good game I can if you
want to Pelt me with those questions I
can come back with answers but of course
her response is that this meat eaters
responses were stupid and self-indulgent
and fatuous and ultimately her argument
that she came down to I knew from early
on that was implicitly her point her
argument was that she's not interested
in being a good person morally she's
interested in living a life of
self-indulgence and pleasure that for
her the pleasure of eating a steak with
her family is much greater than any
ethical or ecological concerns about
killing the cow or you know on a macro
scale because we're never talking about
just once take millions of people eating
steak the impacts on river is the skies
etc etc but you know as an illustration
of the kind of disconnect between us at
at one point she said to me you know
well it doesn't matter IE well there's
no point in being vegan because there
will always be demand for meat in the
United States there will always be she
is saying in fact there will always be
more than zero demand for meat in the
United States indeed there will always
be significant demand for me and i
responded this she interrupted me
repeatedly by the way in mid-sentence
and I would let her finish her
interruption and say okay now I'm going
to finish my sentence I left off it sums
I do that to advance yes I understand
now I'm going to finish my sentence but
I respond to that point the point that
there will always be more than zero
demand for me with a very specific
comparison to cocaine I said there will
always be more than zero demand for
cocaine in the United States there will
nicotine for cigarettes in the United
States I think she interrupted me
already then and I let her say and then
I said okay I'm going to finish my
sentence you know it took me quite a
while to get out this very basic point
but what I was saying was you know the
comparison to cocaine it's a contrast
I'm not saying meat and cocaine of the
same thing her her response was just a
buzzcut orion and frankly idiotic but
you know my point about cocaine was
there will always be more than zero
demand for cocaine United States the
question of what that means for
government policy for public education
for labeling you know the way we have
labeling on cigarettes you know for
criminal law all these things that's one
category but the question of what it
means for me is actually something very
different yes there will always be
demand for cocana United States there
will always be demand for for red meat
in the United States but that does not
mean that I should therefore purchase
and consume cocaine or that I should
purchase or consume red meat it's
actually totally irrelevant it's
profoundly spurious so that's from my
perspective and interest point but it
answers exactly her point now I actually
i just mentioned i wasn't posing in this
conversation aika member having many
i've done research on drug policy mostly
in Southeast Asian countries like Laos
Thailand Cambodia you know countries
where the government does not have an
infinite budget to employ police
officers to try to stamp out the use of
drugs like cocaine and heroin I remember
one conversation with that guy was a
real scholar very eccentric character
and I remember he actually thought that
in the future drugs like heroin would
disappear partly due to government
repression but partly he thought science
would invent better drugs there
competition for heroin other addictive
variational substance i remember i said
to him simply um you know I think heroin
it's it's like blue jeans new fashions
come and go but you know blue jeans
remain for sale year after year uh I
don't think heroin is ever going to
disappear from the world no matter what
government policies with up there will
always be some people addicted to heroin
I think there will always be some people
addicted to cocaine there will always be
demand for those drugs but that is not
an excuse for any one person to use
cocaine on that human level and even all
the questions that are complex about
what should the government do some
people genuinely think that heroin
should be legal not illegal the same way
that cigarettes are legal and that the
government should regulate it in
different way the government should have
this kind of harm reduction approach to
try to reduce the use of those drugs
very interesting debates terms of
political science very interesting
debates and a lot of interesting studies
on that but all of that is actually
irrelevant to the question you and me I
to I right now is it the right thing for
you to do do I want you if you're my
friend if you're my brother if you're my
son if you're my father through my
grandfather do I want you to eat meat is
it okay for you to eat meat is it the
right decision if you'd eat me actually
that plays out on that same level as is
it okay for you to smoke cigarettes is
it okay for you to use heroin and the
question of what the government is doing
you know the difference between
government policy in the Netherlands in
Amsterdam or in the United States in New
York City the question of the attitudes
of the medical establishment of doctors
or even the questions of specific
medical findings I talked to an expert
on heroin in in Thailand and he was of
the opinion that medically you know the
effects of heroin on the body were much
much less significant than many other
commonly used drugs like like alcohol
when it was an interesting perspective
it may it may be irrelevant to the
problem of heroin if the impacts in your
body are less but the the addiction is
worse they're all these other all these
other issues but I wasn't I mean you
know the guy the guy knew what he was
talking about the medically on the level
of the nervous system in the organs he
actually the heroin was less of a
problem than many other drugs like sick
it's an alcohol that people commonly use
okay interesting but irrelevant to this
eye to eye mandame an person-to-person
conversation we are going to have about
what's the right thing for you to do
what sort of thing for me to do how are
we going to lead meaningful lives
ethical lives right now and in the next
10 years anyway this particular media
responded by just saying that it was
totally unreasonable for me to even
mention cocaine the cocaine was an
extreme example that saying cocaine was
like meat in any way was stupid etc now
I don't think I need to explain to this
audience that I was not saying cocaine
and meat of the same thing they are
profoundly different things I was saying
in this one aspect the question of how
public demand for a product shapes my
choice of other product that it's
actually irrelevant the fact that there
will always be some demand for meat the
United States doesn't shave my decision
the fact there will always be some
demand for cocaine doesn't shake my
decision it wouldn't shape the decision
I give to my own child my own brother my
own father grandfather but she basically
responded this by ranting that I must be
a fool to offer an argument that dares
to equate or compare consumption of meat
with consumption cocaine all right you
know maybe I'm not going to respond on
that level what I actually did say to
her I don't know if it'll stay with the
earth it'll she'll ignore it or what
have you but I said look you know you
have to send these are questions of
ethics and she I'm not listing
everything we talked about she also
raised issues of how the animals are
slaughtered and blah blah blah I said
let you have to understand from my
perspective I actually regard you in a
much more negative light than the way a
Catholic regards me a Catholic is quite
correct from the perspective of their
faith to regard me as someone who's
going to hell however I'm only taking
myself to hell I'm not dragging down
anyone else with me yeah it's my
personal choice from a Catholic
perspective I'm rejecting the phase
faith I'm
ejecting Jesus Christ as my savior I'm
rejecting heaven in that afterlife I'm
going to hell from a Catholic
perspective but I'm not taking you or us
to hell right and from a vegan
perspective actually what meat eaters do
is much worse because what meat eaters
do is killing millions of animals it's
paying its way every time they buy meat
they are paying to perpetuate the system
of industrialized meat production
industrialized you know animal
exploiting agriculture and they are in a
very real sense destroying the world's
ecology at a point in history when we
really do not have much slack much a
margin to mess around you personally
when you turn on the lights which do not
have a choice about whether that
electricity was produced by solar power
by a you know smokestack burning coal or
by a nuclear power plant you don't have
that choice unless you are wealthy
enough to build your own power plants or
build your own solar panels the vast
majority of people every day use
electricity and can't question where
that electricity came from and that does
have an ecological impact when I flush
the toilet I can't choose where the
sewage goes I can't choose the quality
of the sewage treatment plant I can I
actually have done this I can go to City
Hall and debate with the government
there are plans to build a new sewage
treatment plant I've been involved with
that kind of politics in Canada I would
have loved to been involved in Laos I
did research really do that was a very
interesting question Laos where does
your sewage go where does your
electricity come from but on a day to
day basis man-to-man I die as a person
on your own two feet flipping the light
switch you don't have that choice here
and now and you do have a choice about
what is on your fork what is on your
plate what you buy at a restaurant will
you buy the supermarket and yes from my
perspective what you're doing is much
worse than merely being against my
religion or against my beliefs or my
values and some other sense like
Catholicism or what have you you're
doing real harm you're doing harm to
animals you're doing harm to all of us
you are actually doing harm to our
future as human beings on this planet
ultimately we've got to share the same
plate there's a sense in which i sit
down the restaurant you and I'm except
for choices we have separate plates and
there's a sense in which we share the
same plate and we share the same fate I
don't think there's any way I could
communicate to her what I was really
thinking and feeling however because the
truth is I don't want her I don't want
her to become vegan I don't want to
convince her to be vegan on level of
feeling a level of knowing sure
everybody should be vegan on a level of
how I feel I don't really want a bunch
of idiots to become vegan and I don't
really care if I perceive you as someone
who is just a self-indulgent idiot
living a life totally devoted to
pleasure I don't really care if you
become vegan or not because you're not
going to help the movement you know I
can help me with my attempts to move
forward as a vegan activist as someone
who wants that a future in a real
political movement in a real community
making a real difference in the world oh
that's a really bleak note to end this
video on